hi everyone
so today i'm coming at you with the
power of hindsight and i'm going to be
telling you the 10 things i wish i knew
before starting
university i have just graduated from
cambridge university this year
but i'm kind of thinking to myself if i
could travel back in time
three years and speak to myself before i
started university
what would i say before we go any
further i'd just like to thank
busu for sponsoring this video busu
is a really great language learning app
that i've been using over the past few
weeks
you can choose from 12 different
languages to learn i chose french
because it was my favorite subject at
school there's tons of lessons which you
can work through at your own pace
they include writing speaking listening
reading
what's really great about booster is you
can connect with native speakers of the
language you're learning
so i can connect with native french
speakers and likewise people who are
learning english can connect with me
you can sign up to busu to learn a
language for free or you can upgrade to
busu premium to access all the features
on the app with busu premium you get
your own individual study plan so you
can set yourself goals how many minutes
you're going to do per day and you can
track your progress
you also get access to all grammar
lessons and all the grammar tips on the
app which are really helpful and
honestly the best part is the
conversation exercises
where you apply what you've learned
immediately to writing and speaking
exercises
and you get pretty much instant feedback
from native speakers of the language
i love the kind of cross of language
learning and social media network that
busu have created
and i will leave a link in the
description if you want to find out more
okay
let's now get into the 10 things i wish
i knew before starting uni
the first thing i wish i knew is that i
was
going to make friends i remember being
really nervous because i was going to a
completely new city
where i didn't know anyone and i have
been quite shy in the past
i was worried i wouldn't make friends at
all and i'd be really lonely
but the complete opposite was true i
managed to make lots of really lovely
friends at uni
and i'd also tell myself that no one
else is necessarily
cooler than me i remember feeling like
i wasn't cool enough to talk to some
people and people wouldn't want to be
my friend i think i was just intimidated
by other people when i needn't have been
and actually i think the people who
appear cool
are just faking it till they make it you
know what i mean
just if i could go back i'd tell myself
to relax because
i will find my people the second thing i
wish i knew
is that you won't complete every
assignment perfectly
and some weeks you will hand in work
that's incomplete
despite your best efforts and that is
okay someone
who was in the year above me at uni told
me this
on my first day they said you're not
going to complete every problem set
perfectly every week but don't worry
about it
and i just didn't listen to them it just
didn't go in because i was still in that
mindset that i had at school where
everything had to be done 100
perfectly that was doable at school but
university is different the workload at
cambridge was challenging and at the end
of the day you are going to have weeks
where you just can't do the work
at uni you're aiming for 70 for a first
not 100
the level has changed it's no longer
reasonable
to expect yourself to get 100 in every
assignment it just isn't gonna happen
the third thing i tell myself is that
you need your sleep
simple as that really not much more to
say on it i
remember being exhausted
on some days in first year where i'd got
as little as four or five hours sleep
i just feel like my first term at uni
would have gone a lot more smoothly
if i had been more strict with myself at
getting my sleep when i needed it
the fourth thing i wish i'd known is
that you're not gonna fail
i would just tell myself to have a bit
of belief in yourself
there is no need for meltdowns every
time exams come round
again i think it was the transition from
school where i'd been getting
near 100 to then going to uni and
aiming for about 60 i just wish
i'd realized that hard work does pay off
and that doesn't change going from
school to uni it doesn't change that
hard work pays off just because i was in
this new environment
and being pushed more than i ever had
been before it didn't mean i was going
to fail because i was still
putting effort in the fifth thing i wish
i'd known
is that it's okay to take time off for
hobbies and for socializing
every time i was at a society or i was
going on a night out or i was going to a
formal
i felt guilty for not doing work
admittedly
in my first year i did go wild with
societies i did rowing i did dancing
i was spending every spare minute
getting to know people making new
friends
and i did enjoy myself but always in the
back of my mind
was should i be revising right now
should i be working right now i wish i'd
just
let that go i've said this before i'll
say it again university is about more
than just academics
and i'd just like to reassure myself
that all the socializing was fine
i had a good balance it was okay the
sixth thing i wish i'd known
is that nobody judges you for asking
questions
or asking for help i think my issue is
that i've always been afraid of people
thinking
i'm stupid so i tend to hold back my
questions and i don't ask for help and
just struggle through by myself i got
away with it at school because
the work was easier i remember at
parents evenings at school the teachers
saying to my parents oh yes paige is a
very conscientious pupil
she never really asks questions but
that's fine because her work is all good
but once i got to uni the work just got
a lot
harder and it was very much necessary to
ask
questions and i did eventually realise
that but i think particularly in my
first year i struggled
more than i would have if i had been
more brave and confident to ask
questions and ask for help when i needed
it
even like just ask my friends for help
not just supervisors lecturers but my
friends
if i'd ask them for help i think i would
have gotten a lot better
i don't think other people are stupid
when they ask questions
so why would other people think i'm
stupid when i ask
questions you know so it was a very
silly complex to have
the seventh thing i wish i'd known is
that it's not possible to take too much
stuff to uni
this is probably not what you hear from
other people i know lots of people say
you didn't need all the stuff you packed
into your car on that first day of uni
my parents always rolled their eyes and
said i over packed
but i feel like i used everything i did
used to do a review where i sat down at
the end of term and thought
hmm what's here that i didn't ever use
but i kind of used it all at the root of
it
is i felt more at home when
more of my stuff was at uni with me i
just wish i'd known that
it was fun because whatever made me most
comfortable
was fine the eighth thing i wish i'd
known
is that past papers are the key to
success it's shocking i didn't know this
considering at school during gcses
during a-levels i went crazy with past
paper practice i did
every past paper there was for so many
of my subjects
yet when i got to uni i seemed to forget
about all that and decided actually
past papers weren't that important i
think what happened was
i was so overwhelmed by the amount of
content i needed to know
i defaulted to passive learning and just
reading over all my lecture notes and
none of it really went in and i just
wish i'd known that concentrating on
smaller chunks of the course and doing
practice questions and knowing them well
would have been far more beneficial than
frantically trying to read
all of my notes and in the end not
really knowing any of the course
that well when it comes to preparing for
exams
it doesn't matter if you can recite a
page of lecture notes perfectly
if you can't apply it to the question
that they ask in the exam
so the only way you're going to get good
at doing exams and getting good grades
is by doing past papers over and over
the ninth thing i wish i'd known
is that you don't have to drink because
everyone else is i think when starting
uni
i was so desperate to fit in and
because everyone else was drinking lots
i did it too
and i think this is probably the first
time that i'm admitting to myself
that i did have alcohol to be like
everyone else
don't get me wrong i do like a drink i'm
not teetotal
but i don't see the appeal of binge
drinking
getting drunk i just don't get it i
don't
enjoy it so i wish i could go back and
say
paige you don't have to drink to make
people
like you or to fit in just be yourself
and the tenth thing i tell myself is
you are gonna have the best time ever
you're gonna fall in love with the city
the people
the course and it's gonna be a struggle
to leave
so enjoy every moment while you can
and time goes really fast it's over
before you know it
and that's it there are 10 things that i
would tell myself
the 10 things i wish i'd known before
starting uni i don't think i made any
huge mistakes while at uni
i guess i just would have appreciated
the reassurance really
of a lot of these things if you're
heading off to uni soon whether it's for
your first year second year third year
good luck have the best time i would
really appreciate if you give this video
a like
and subscribe to my channel hit the
notification bell
follow me over on instagram which is at
underscore page
underscore why and i will see you soon
with another video
bye
[Music]
oh hello buster i've got a new dog and
my dog's just walked in
you're gonna say hello buster come here
don't knock my tripod
is he not the cutest is he not the
cutest
oh he's so cute
[Music]
okay bye buster that was his 10 seconds
of fame and he's had enough